{\rtf1\ansi
{\fonttbl\f0\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier;}
\pard\plain \qc RAMAYANA: A KING'S DHARMA\par
\pard\plain \qc by\par
\pard\plain \qc Zeezee Canning\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\qc\caps\page\li0\ri-4184 \ul ACT 1\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb480\ql\caps\li0\ri-4184 EXT. VALMIKI'S HERMITAGE.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\li1332\ri-4060 VALMIKI is chanting an ancient tune. His eyes are closed in meditation.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\li1332\ri-4060 Two twin boys enter with kindling. It's sunset, and they are laughing amongst themselves.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\li1332\ri-4060 Hearing Valmiki's tune, KUSH begins to beat the sticks in rythmn, and LUV dances with a stringed instrument. Valmiki smiles and looks to the boys.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 VALMIKI\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 You boys are truly as playful as your Grandfather!\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\li1332\ri-4060 (The Opening Number begins)\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 KUSH\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\fi-208\li3304\ri-624 (mimicking a warrior's move)\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 Could he do \i this\i0 ?\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 VALMIKI\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 Come and find out!\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\li1332\ri-4060 Valmiki begins to sing about Dasaratha, how he wooed Kaikeyi, and how after the War Dasaratha became King, Kaikeyi lead Queen. Luv and Kush continue their playing and harmonize Valmiki.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\li1332\ri-4060 Ghostly figures appear on stage and surround the trio, reenacting the story. It's elegant, mythical, and reminds us of shadow puppetry.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 VALMIKI\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\fi-208\li3304\ri-624 (spoken interlude)\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 And so, he gave each of his Queens the nectar of the Gods in hopes to produce an heir. But, one Queen got more than the rest, and Kaikeyi would never forget that day.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\li1332\ri-4060 DASARATHA is seen giving a larger portion to KAUSALYA while KAIKEYI watches.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\li1332\ri-4060 Simultaneously, we see JANAKA working his own fields. He sees BABY SITA burried in a furrow. Valmiki sings about how Janaka was awaiting a daughter--a daughter that would remind him of his decesased Wife.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\li1332\ri-4060 BABY RAMA is born, and everyone's attention is on him and Kausalya. The rest of THE BOYS are born shortly after, but the King's attention is no longer on Kaikeyi.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\li1332\ri-4060 (End ghost story)\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb480\ql\caps\li0\ri-4184 INT. JANAKA'S PALACE\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\li1332\ri-4060 Suddenly, a young princess SITA takes center stage. Living around all women, she's excited to find a Man. Like Janaka, Sita believes in miracles. (similar spirit to "Waiting For Life")\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\qr\caps\li0\ri-4184 SIMULTANEOUSLY...(IN CONCERT)\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb480\ql\caps\li0\ri-4184 EXT. MARKETS OF AYODHYA/LANKA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\li1332\ri-4060 Dasaratha's four young boys enter; the three follow RAMA, a prince of Sita's age. Dasaratha's sons own the markets of Ayodhya, enjoying all it has to offer (Rama & Boys in a similar spirit to "Dancing through Life").\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\li1332\ri-4060 (end Sita's duet with the Brothers)\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\li1332\ri-4060 After much convincing by his brothers, Rama hops onto a crate in the middle of the Market for a solo. He is the oldest Prince\i  \i0 after all (similar in maturity to "My Petersburg").\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\qr\caps\li0\ri-4184 SIMULTANEOUSLY...(IN CONCERT)\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\li1332\ri-4060 As if in an overlayed universe, a young RAVANA and SURPANAKHA roam the markets of Lanka (Ayodhya), the rakshasa prince and princess being chased after by VIBHEESHANA. Ravana hopes to become king of the world one day, which Vibeeshana says could never happen (implied: due to being a Rakshasa and not a Kyshatriya). Ravana doesn't believe him, and promises that one day, he will get there. (Similar in child-like hope to "Just Can't Wait to be King")\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\li1332\ri-4060 (End Rama & Ravana Duet)\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb480\ql\caps\li0\ri-4184 INT. JANAKA'S COURT\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 SITA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 Father! Father! You called?\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 JANAKA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 Happy birthday, my dear! Sixteen, is it now?\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 SITA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 What did you get me?\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 JANAKA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\fi-208\li3304\ri-624 (reaching into his pocket)\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 Hmm, I think I know...\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 JANAKA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 Ah-hah!\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\li1332\ri-4060 Janaka pulls out a ring. It's his Wife's.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 SITA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 What is it?\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 JANAKA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 It's your Mother's. It was the ring I gave her when we first met.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\li1332\ri-4060 Sita takes the ring. It is as radiant as the Sun.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 SITA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 Does that mean...\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 JANAKA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 Yes, it is time for you to wed.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 SITA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 Oh, Father!\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 JANAKA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 And, just like your Mother, you shall get to choose your husband.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb480\ql\caps\li0\ri-4184 INT. DASARATHA'S COURT\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 VISWAMITRA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 My Lord, the boy is sixteen. You must let Fate take its course.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 DASARATHA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 He is my son, revered Viswamitra, he is still a child! How can we be certain that he will be safe with you? \i Rakshasas\i0  are unforgiving!\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 VISWAMITRA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 He is destined to fight demons. He is not an ordinary child, Dasaratha, he is Vishnu reincarnated! You must not forget his purpose which is to vanquish Evil on this Earth.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 DASARATHA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\fi-208\li3304\ri-624 (defeatedly)\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 You are right. I must learn to control my attachment for the greater good of my people.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\li1332\ri-4060 Rama and Lakshmana enter.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 DASARATHA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 Rama, Viswamitra needs a \i kyshatriya's\i0  prowess. You must go with him.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 RAMA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 Yes, Father.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 LAKSHMANA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\fi-208\li3304\ri-624 (grabbing Rama)\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 What about me? You can't take Rama without me!\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 VISWAMITRA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 Yes, you may join your brother.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\li1332\ri-4060 The boys leave with Viswamitra. Dasaratha holds his breath.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb480\ql\caps\li0\ri-4184 INT. DASARATHA / JANAKA COURT\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\li1332\ri-4060 (Dasaratha & Janaka Duet)\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\li1332\ri-4060 Dasaratha and Janaka reflect on letting go of their children. (similar to 'Ti Moune'). For Dasaratha, its the uncertainty that Rama my never return, even after all the attempts at producing an heir. He is growing old, this is his last chance, and he wants to be a part of his son's reign. \par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\li1332\ri-4060 Rama and Lakshmana successfully vanquish the demons that were threatening the hermits. Clearly, Rama knows his valour as a warrior. Viswamitra points in the direction of Mithila. Lakshmana excitedly eggs Rama on. It's clear that Viswamitra proposed for Rama to attend Sita's \i swayumvara\i0 .\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\li1332\ri-4060 To Janaka, it is as if he is letting go of his Wife for the second time. Watching Sita lead the preparation for her swayumvara\i , \i0 he is reminded about how Sita's independence is such like his Wife's.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb480\ql\caps\li0\ri-4184 EXT. MITHILA COURTYARD\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\li1332\ri-4060 Suitors line up to try and string Shiva's bow. Most have already tried, including young Ravana.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 JANAKA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 Sita, have you chosen yet?\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 SITA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 No. They're all the same.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 JANAKA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 Do not fret. We will continue to try.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\li1332\ri-4060 Rama, Lakshmana and Viswamitra enter. He immediately sees Sita talking to Janaka.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 VISWAMITRA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\fi-208\li3304\ri-624 (to Rama)\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 My boy, you must go up and string that bow. In the name of your father, prove that you are \ul the \ul0 kyshatriya of Ishvaku!\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 RAMA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\fi-208\li3304\ri-624 (looking at Sita)\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 ....hmm?\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 LAKSHMANA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 That bow is huge! Rama, if you can lift that, you can conquer anything!\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\fi-208\li3304\ri-624 (after no response)\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 Rama?\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 RAMA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\fi-208\li3304\ri-624 (frazzled)\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 Oh, yes, sir.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\li1332\ri-4060 Rama slowly approaches the bow, his head bowed.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 JANAKA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 Ah, there is one more.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\li1332\ri-4060 Sita looks at Rama. Their gaze has not yet met, but Sita knows.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 SITA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 This will be the one.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 JANAKA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 What? He is so young.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\li1332\ri-4060 Rama first studies the bow.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 SITA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 Just watch, Father. He is... different.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\li1332\ri-4060 With much effort, Rama lifts the bow upright. Everyone is quiet, and Ravana stares in horror.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\li1332\ri-4060 Rama, without losing focus, attempts to string the bow. As the bow bends to a crescent, it snaps. A shockwave radiates through everything and everyone.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\li1332\ri-4060 (Begin wedding song. In sentiment to 'No Matter What')\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 SITA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\fi-208\li3304\ri-624 (excitedly getting up)\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 Yes, he's the one!\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\li1332\ri-4060 While everyone congradulates Rama, Sita comes up from behind him holding a boque of flowers. She taps him on the shoulders. Rama turns around and immediately blushes.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\li1332\ri-4060 Sita hands him the flowers and gives him a kiss.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 SITA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 Would you do me the honor of being my prince?\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 RAMA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 I do.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 SUITOR\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\fi-208\li3304\ri-624 (Elsewhere)\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 He did it. He broke the bow of the Gods. It's as if he is one himself, don't you think?\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 RAVANA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 Yes, he broke it effortlessly.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\li1332\ri-4060 Ravana leaves, devastated.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\qr\caps\li0\ri-4184 ABRUPT BLACKOUT AT END OF SONG\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\qc\caps\li0\ri-4184 \ul END ACT 1.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\qc\caps\page\li0\ri-4184 \ul ACT 2\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb480\ql\caps\li0\ri-4184 INT. RAMA'S OFFICE\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\li1332\ri-4060 Officer Rama, now in his early twenties, sits at his desk reviewing proposals for a new set of laws. Besides his documents and a quill, bright flowers sit in a golden vase; they are of the same type as those at the swayumvara.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 SITA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 Ah, there he is!\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 RAMA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 Hello, my love, how can I help? I am quite busy reading these amendments. They need to be passed as soon as possible. The word on the street is that domestic violence has become more of a problem, and we currently do not have any robust standards in place. \par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\fi-208\li3304\ri-624 (picking up the paperweight that are the amendments in one, unnaturally strong arm)\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 These are for the women of Ayodhya.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 SITA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 Clever, clever. Have you gotten to mine yet?\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 RAMA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 You wrote one?\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 SITA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 Yes, but don't tell anybody.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 RAMA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\fi-208\li3304\ri-624 (shuffling through the papers)\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 Is it under your name?\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\li1332\ri-4060 Sita approaches his desk.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 SITA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 Of course not. I'm not telling you which one it is, either. Come, let's go for a walk. You've been in here all week. I miss being with you.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\li1332\ri-4060 Sita pushes aside the papers and holds out her hand.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 SITA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 We can find those favorite flowers of yours.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 RAMA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 You mean, the ones you stuffed my face in during your swayumvara?\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 SITA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\fi-208\li3304\ri-624 (reaching for the flowers in the vase)\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 If I do it again will you come?\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\li1332\ri-4060 Rama turns Sita's face for a kiss.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 RAMA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 I don't need those, my flower.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 SITA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 That's the right attitude!\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\li1332\ri-4060 Hand in hand, Sita leads Rama out of his office, his papers hitting the floor. On the way, they pass Manthara walking to Kaikeyi's Room.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb480\ql\caps\li0\ri-4184 INT. KAIKEYI'S ROOM\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\li1332\ri-4060 Kaikeyi is sitting at her vanity. Manthara comes in with fresh linens.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 MANTHARA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 Ugh, you should see those two.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 KAIKEYI\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 Who?\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 MANTHARA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 That half-son of yours. The one always fawning over Sita.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 KAIKEYI\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 Manthara, please save it. I am trying to be in a good mood for dinner tonight.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 MANTHARA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 The one where Kausalya will be in between you and King Dasaratha?\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 KAIKEYI\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 Yes, but that is not an excuse to be unaproachable.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 MANTHARA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 The head queen should sit beside her King, not next to one of her mistresses. Don't you think it's a bit strange?\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 KAIKEYI\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 What?\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 MANTHARA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 That he prefers Kausalya over you, and her son will be King? The son who goes on romantic romps instead of tending to Princely duties, while Bharata, your son, is deep in literature and study. This was always the case, even when they were children: Rama and Lakshmana would be goofing off with the sages, while Bharata was left studying politics with our minster Vaishishta.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 KAIKEYI\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 What are you implying this time Manthara? You're such a martyr...\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 MANTHARA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 Bharata should be King, Kaikeyi, and you know it. That's the only way you can secure your role as the head queen.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\fi-208\li3304\ri-624 (finding Kaikeyi's soft-spot)\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 Dasaratha has forgotten his love for you because he's been blinded by his love for Rama, a son by an inferior queen! Kaikeyi, you should have been the mother of the eldest! Not Kausalya!\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\li1332\ri-4060 Manthara's argument hits home.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 KAIKEYI\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 What should I do?\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 MANTHARA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 After all these years and all the Kings that I have served, I have never seen a queen so powerful as yourself, Kaikeyi. Use your boons.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 KAIKEYI\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 Those were--I didn't need to be bribed by boons to save his life in battle. He gave them to me as a courtesy, a way to say 'I love you.'\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 MANTHARA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 What love? He offered them, so use them. If he loves you, he will hold his word. Ask for Rama to be banished for fourteen years in the forest. That way, it will give enough time to demonstrate Bharata's ability to be king, and you will become the Head Queen again!\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 KAIKEYI\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 Yes, I will be head queen by the end of the day!\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb480\ql\caps\li0\ri-4184 INT. AYODHYA GRAND HALL\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\li1332\ri-4060 Kaikeyi walks in for dinner. Like what Manthara described, she sits in between Kausalya and Sumitra. Dasaratha sits at the head of the table.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 KAIKEYI\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 My Lord, how was your day?\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 DASARATHA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 Pleasant! Went on a nice walk through the markets. Ran into Rama and Sita! I'm so glad she got him out of that dismal office; that man works too hard. Where were you today? I wanted to invite you to walk with us.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 KAIKEYI\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 Oh, apologies.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\li1332\ri-4060 Three brothers enter the room. Rama and Sita are arm-in-arm. Bharata is no where to be found.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 DASARATHA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 There are my boys! Rama, son, come to your ol' father!\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 RAMA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 Hello, Father.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 DASARATHA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 Come, sit! I have important news for you all.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\li1332\ri-4060 The boys and their wives sit at the table. Rama sits right across from Kaikeyi.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 DASARATHA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 As you know, your father is getting quite old. So, after talking with my people, it seems that we have all come to the consensus that Rama should be the heir to the throne. He is the people's choice and my dearest son.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\li1332\ri-4060 A roar of applause by everyone, including the servants. Kaikeyi looks panicked.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 DASARATHA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 So, let us not dally! I want Rama shall be crowned yuvaraja tomorrow!\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 KAIKEYI\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\fi-208\li3304\ri-624 (crying)\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 My Lord!\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\li1332\ri-4060 A stunned silence.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 DASARATHA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 Kaikeyi? What's wrong?\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 KAIKEYI\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\fi-208\li3304\ri-624 (to a servant)\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 You, find Bharata.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 KAIKEYI\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 My two boons from long ago--that night I saved your life--do you remember?\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 DASARATHA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 Yes, of course!\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 KAIKEYI\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 Well, I want to use them now.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 DASARATHA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 Love, I have always sworn you could have whatever you want! Why the tears? What is wrong?\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 KAIKEYI\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\fi-208\li3304\ri-624 (seething)\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 Listen carefully, then. I want Bharata to be crowned and Rama banished to the forest for fourteen years. Dasaratha, prince of dharma, do not break your word, else you will bring misfortune to the entire Ishvaku lineage, \i including Rama.\i0 \par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\li1332\ri-4060 Utter silence.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 DASARATHA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\fi-208\li3304\ri-624 (to his servants)\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 Leave us.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\li1332\ri-4060 Servants quickly exit the room. Dasaratha looks into Kaikeyi's eyes; it's like looking into the depths of Hell.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 DASARATHA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 What has Rama done to deserve this? Who are you?\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 KAIKEYI\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 Your head queen!\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\li1332\ri-4060 It has finally caught up to Dasaratha.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 DASARATHA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 Please, take it back! I will give you anything else, just please not this! Please, my love, please, not my Rama-!\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\li1332\ri-4060 Rama comforts Dasaratha.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 KAIKEYI\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 No more of your sweet talk! You uphold your word or I tell everyone in Ayodhya that their King is a \i liar!\i0 \par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 RAMA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 Mother Kaikeyi-! Please, you did not have to put Father through this. If you had only asked, I would have gone to the forest without second thought.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 LAKSHMANA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\fi-208\li3304\ri-624 (to Rama)\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 You can't be serious.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 RAMA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 Why wouldn't I be serious?\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 LAKSHMANA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 It's... ridiculous! You deserve the throne, Rama! That's how kingship works!\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 SITA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 Then are you suggesting we disobey our Mothers?\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 LAKSHMANA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 Sita, you too?!\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\li1332\ri-4060 Kausalya begins to weep. Sita and Lakshmana rush to her side.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 KAIKEYI\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 You leave tonight. Bark clothes like the \i rishis\i0 . \par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 RAMA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\fi-208\li3304\ri-624 (sternly)\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 Calm yourself, Mother Kaikeyi. Allow us this moment to say good-bye, then we shall leave.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 SITA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\fi-208\li3304\ri-624 (privately to each other)\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 I'm coming with you, right?\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 RAMA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 You want to come? Sita, it's fourteen years.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 SITA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 Rama, if I can write a piece of legislation which you approved of, I think I am smart enough to make my own decisions.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 RAMA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\fi-208\li3304\ri-624 (smirks)\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 Fair. Alright.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 RAMA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\fi-208\li3304\ri-624 (publicly, in high-spirits)\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 Sumantra, ready the chariot. Fate has declared we stay in the forest for fourteen years. Nobody can escape the workings of Fate, and only Time will tell what will come of it. \par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\fi-208\li3304\ri-624 (looking over to Sita)\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 We might as well enjoy it while we can.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 LAKSHMANA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 At least you will have me, too.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 RAMA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 Glad you said that. What would I do without you both?\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 DASARATHA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 Rama, please, my son, stay. I do not know what to do without you.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 RAMA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 Do not worry, Father. It will only be fourteen years. Bharata will make an excellent King; he is wise in the knowledge of politics. He will help you sort through everything.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\li1332\ri-4060 Rama and Lakshmana dress into simple clad clothes. Only Lakshmana carries weaponry, and Sita wears simple, but royal, robes. They exit the palace and get on the chariot with Sumantra.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\li1332\ri-4060 Sita begins to hum the tune of 'No Matter What' from their wedding (a reprise).\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 RAMA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\fi-208\li3304\ri-624 (completing the measure)\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\caps\li648\ri-4208 FROM THIS DAY ON,\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\caps\li648\ri-4208 UNTIL KINGDOM COME,\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\caps\li648\ri-4208 I WILL LOVE YOU\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\caps\li648\ri-4208 NO MATTER WHAT.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\caps\li648\ri-4208 \par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\qr\caps\li0\ri-4184 BLACKOUT\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb480\ql\caps\li0\ri-4184 EXT. VALMIKI'S HERMITAGE\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\li1332\ri-4060 Luv, Kush and Valmiki sit around the campfire built from the wood they collected earlier. It's evening.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 KUSH\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 How could he be optimistic? He willingly wants to live \i here\i0 ? \par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 LUV\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 It's not that bad.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 VALMIKI\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 Well, they actually had to live in a much scarier part of the forest. You see, after Bharata caught up to them at the edge of Kosala--\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 KUSH\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 He must have been so embarassed.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 LUV\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 I don't think he had a choice.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 VALMIKI\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 Fate can be as unpredictable as the sparks that fly from the fire. But, the sparks always come from one flame--the flame that sustains you and me. Watch here.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\li1332\ri-4060 With a flick of Valmiki's hands, we see Bharata apologizing profusely to Rama for Mother Kaikeyi's actions in the midst of the flame.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 KUSH\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 Woah. Sage Magic.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 VALMIKI\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 Bharata was a good man put in a tricky situation.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\li1332\ri-4060 Valmiki 'scrub's through the film that is the flame. There is a ton of 'film', most of which is their lives with various hermits.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\li1332\ri-4060 Valmiki stops the 'film.' Sita can be seen conversing with Rama at the Dandaka Hut.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 LUV\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 Wait, is that...Mother?\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 VALMIKI\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 When she was younger, yes.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 KUSH\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 Why is she with-?\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 LUV\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 Oh my---\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 VALMIKI\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\fi-208\li3304\ri-624 (smiling)\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 Let us continue...\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\qc\caps\page\li0\ri-4184 \ul ACT 3\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb480\ql\caps\li0\ri-4184 EXTERIOR. DANDAKA HUT.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\li1332\ri-4060 RAMA and SITA sit outside of the Dandaka Hut. It's peaceful, as every early morning is.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\li1332\ri-4060 Sita is matting and combing Rama's wet tangled hair. It clearly hurts, as Sita tightly wraps one strand over the next. Over, under, over, under. \par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\li1332\ri-4060 LAKSHMANA comes out of the Dandaka Hut holding makeshift tools, hair also wet, but neatly done up in a matted bun.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 LAKSHMANA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 That should be it. No more wobbly deck. I just forgot to secure--\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\li1332\ri-4060 Rama excitedly hugs Lakshmana, forcing Sita to forego the current strand.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 RAMA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 It's perfect. You did a great job.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 LAKSHMANA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 Are you hungry or something? You can't even see it--\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 SITA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 No, Rama's just a wimp and doesn't want me to finish his hair.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 RAMA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 We have all day to finish my hair.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\fi-208\li3304\ri-624 (returning to Sita)\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 Especially since I've have a story to tell you, my love.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 SITA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 Let me guess, it's a word-for-word retelling of "Vyasa's" apocalyptic future. Yeah, I think we've heard that one enough times. The Sages' favorite--\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\fi-208\li3304\ri-624 (After second thought)\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 Pretty sure you're in it too....Wait....\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 RAMA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 Ha-ha, no, not that one. That one's too long to tell in one sitting, which is why the Sages had to tell us bits and pieces here and there. No, this one I just dreamed of last night. Thought you might like it, and maybe Lakshmana might too.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 SITA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 Ugh, does that mean there's violence?\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 RAMA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 I promise to keep the violence to the minimum.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 SITA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 You better. That's the whole point; remember when we lived with the Sages? No violence, especially coming from you. If so, you'll scare away Mira.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\li1332\ri-4060 The gold deer walks shyly up to Sita. She whispers quietly to it which coaxes the deer to lie down with its head in her lap.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 LAKSHMANA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 Holler when you get to the spicy parts. I'm going to find food.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\li1332\ri-4060 Lakshmana collects his bow and arrows.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 SITA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 Don't hunt Mira's friends!\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 LAKSHMANA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\fi-208\li3304\ri-624 (on his way out of sight)\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 Not everyone can speak to animals, Sita!\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 RAMA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\fi-208\li3304\ri-624 (giddy)\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 Are you ready?\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 SITA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 Let's hear what you've got.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 RAMA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\fi-208\li3304\ri-624 (Sitting close to Sita, also stroking Mira's coat)\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 One day, there was a women like yourself: radiant, youthful, hopeful...in love. It was if she had the world ahead of her--like you do--but for one small difference: she was born in a demonic world--a world of vanity and selfishness. \par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\li1332\ri-4060 Suddenly, a heavenly golden city surrounds the couple. A YOUNG DEMON WOMAN, similar to Sita's age, is shoved out of a glistening marble home, crying. \i Cry elsewhere!\i0  can be heard from its resident.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\li1332\ri-4060 She roams the streets and cautiously attempts to distance herself from the drunk, half-naked PEDESTRIANS. From the cracked-open golden doors, raunchy party-goers could be heard. \par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 RAMA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 This world attracted those who wanted to enjoy only the pleasures in life. Finding herself stuck in this fake reality, the princess fled north, eventually settling herself in the forest. As fate would have it, she ran into a Danavan prince named Vidyutjihva.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\li1332\ri-4060 In Rama and Sita's place are now VIDYUTJIHVA and SURPANAKHA. We are now in the distant past. It's neither night or day. Vidyutjihva and Surpanakha are cuddling, both a disheveled mess.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 VIDYUTJIHVA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 Come again? Your brother is a king? How come you have never mentioned this to me before?\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 SURPANAKHA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 Nobody has bothered to ask about my family. Maybe because I'm not a big part of it? I've always been the independent sorts, especially since my family and I disagree about everything.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 VIDYUTJIHVA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 Yes, you definitely can hold your own, that's for sure. Somehow, you always manage to find me when I'm lost, which is quite often and for long periods of time too.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 SURPANAKHA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 Yes, the forests are not kind to those who do not call them home.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 VIDYUTJIHVA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 At this point, maybe I should. I also am not wanted back home. Not until I prove that I am not a waste of space. That's what happens when you have three other brothers who are all better in every way, you know? Maybe I should move to the forest with you. I know I'm not a--\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\li1332\ri-4060 (Song in the spirit of "ONLY US" performed by Laura Dreyfuss)\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\li1332\ri-4060 Surpanakha doesn't care that Vidyutjihva is of a different race. Rather, he spends the time to listen.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\li1332\ri-4060 Similarly, Vidyutjihva is grateful for Surpanakaha's companionship. She doesn't care if he is a pitiful warrior.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\li1332\ri-4060 Surpanakha and Vidyutjihva decide that it would be better to be alone in the forest, just the two of them, than to face the reality of what the world asks them to be. \par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 SURPANAKHA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\fi-208\li3304\ri-624 (half-haphazardly putting on her gowns)\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 Let's go.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 VIDYUTJIHVA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 Go where?\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 SURPANAKHA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 Get up, get up! We're going to make this place your home.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 SITA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\fi-208\li3304\ri-624 (elsewhere)\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 Rama, you better not be hinting at something.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 RAMA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\fi-208\li3304\ri-624 (elsewhere)\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 What?\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 SITA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 We are only going to be here for another year. Right?\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 RAMA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 Oh! Yes. This is...No! No, this is not a story about us. Yes, we will only be here another year.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 SITA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 We'll see...\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 RAMA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 Eventually, Surpanakha and Vidyutjihva make it back to the demon world. For Surpanakha, this would be her first time back since she fled.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\li1332\ri-4060 Hand-in-hand, Surpanakha and Vidyutjihva approach a YOUNG RAVANA. Both wearing their most elegant gowns. Surpanakha introduces Vidyutjihva.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 RAMA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 Noticing love in her eyes, the King smiled and decided to wed the two. The princess has finally discovered the pleasure in love. However, as the King turned his back--\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\li1332\ri-4060 Vidyutjihva lunges at Ravana with a knife. We're suddenly in Ravana's great hall, where all of SURPANAKHA'S FAMILY can be seen attending the wedding ceremony. The knife nicks Ravana in the back. Ravana reflexively brandishes his sword and slices Vidyutjihva's head off. Surpanakha screams, and lunges for Vidyutjihva, landing right on top of his severed head.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\li1332\ri-4060 Ravana notices the pendant around Surpanakha's neck. It has a Danavan signet.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 RAVANA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\fi-208\li3304\ri-624 (to Surpanakha)\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 You are a traitor.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\li1332\ri-4060 Surpanakha continues to weep as the head turns to ash.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 RAVANA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 And here in the world of pleasure, we have no room for tears.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\li1332\ri-4060 Surpanakha's family jeers.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\li1332\ri-4060 We're back at the peaceful Danka Hut. Mira has resorted to sleeping on the grass. Rama places his head on Sita's lap. \par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 RAMA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 After being subjugated to such humiliation, Surpanakha again fled the Demon city.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 SITA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 She didn't deserve to be treated that way.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 RAMA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 True. Sometimes fate can be cruel, but only Time will tell. The best thing we can do is act according to what is right.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 SITA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\fi-208\li3304\ri-624 (Speculatively)\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 Whose to say what's right?\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 RAMA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 The Sages, our fathers and mothers, our friends... they deserve our utmost respect. Enacting such respect is the right thing to do. That is what's right.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 SITA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 Continue your story.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 RAMA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 Why? It only gets uglier.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 SITA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\fi-208\li3304\ri-624 (sheepishly)\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 So we don't end up talking in circles about \i dharma\i0 .\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 RAMA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 Alright...\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\li1332\ri-4060 Surpanakha has reached the Dandaka Hut still in her beautiful garments. She notices Rama and Sita giggling among themselves.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 RAMA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 I better get Lakshmana. This is the saucy part!\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\fi-208\li3304\ri-624 (gets up and looks for Lakshmana)\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 Lakshmana! This will be your favorite part!\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 SITA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 We finally got there! For once, we've gotten almost to the end!\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\li1332\ri-4060 Rama nudges Sita jokingly.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\li1332\ri-4060 Lakshmana appears from behind the hut carrying a basket of berries and other fresh food. He sets it down in front of the couple. Rama gingerly opens the basket and immediately begins to eat.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\li1332\ri-4060 Lakshmana glances over to Sita and smirks.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 LAKSHMANA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 You're lucky I was close. Okay, get on with it.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 RAMA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 Where was I? Oh! Right: the demon princess fled, for the second time. Except this time, she was looking for another man--\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 SURPANAKHA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\fi-208\li3304\ri-624 (coming out of the bushes)\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 Yes, I am!\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 RAMA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 --to please her.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\li1332\ri-4060 The three turn around and stare at Surpanakha, dressed to the nines in, what humans would consider, scandalous--yet exceptionally elegant--robes. By her behavior, she is clearly done trying to make good first-impressions.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 SURPANAKHA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\fi-208\li3304\ri-624 (sees Rama)\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 ...Vidyutjihva?\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 RAMA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 It's Rama. Nice to meet you. \par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 RAMA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\fi-208\li3304\ri-624 (in disbelief)\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 Who are you?\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 SURPANAKHA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 You know who I am.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 LAKSHMANA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 Your name.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 SURPANAKHA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 Surpanakha. Wif--Ex-wife of Vidyutjihva. The fomer exiled prince of this forest.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 SITA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 ...and you think he's here?\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 SURPANAKHA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\fi-208\li3304\ri-624 (lustfully)\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 If I pretend hard enough.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\li1332\ri-4060 Lakshmana steps in between Rama and Surpanakha to try and ease the tension. With Lakshmana's naturally large stance, it only makes it worse.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 SURPANAKHA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\fi-208\li3304\ri-624 (to Sita)\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 No wonder why Vidyutjihva didn't actually love me. He likes a different type of woman.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 SITA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 Rama is not Vidyutjihva.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 SURPANAKHA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 He looks quite alike per my memory. Same physique, same beautiful eyes. Say, Vid--\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\fi-208\li3304\ri-624 (pointing to Rama)\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 --you, over there. Why are you here in the forest?\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 RAMA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 I have come to live in the jungle for 14 years with my brother, Lakshmana, and wife, Sita.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 SURPANAKHA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 Why?\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 RAMA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 Per my father's orders.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 SURPANAKHA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 \i Why?\i0 \par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 RAMA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 I was banished.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 SURPANAKHA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\fi-208\li3304\ri-624 (walking towards Sita)\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 You see?\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\li1332\ri-4060 Mira flees, as does all her friends.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\li1332\ri-4060 Somehow, we feel uncomfortably close to what's happening.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 SURPANAKHA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\fi-208\li3304\ri-624 (back towards Rama)\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 Rama, that's it, right? You know my story. In fact, you know who I am outside of my story too. You know how powerful I can be. I can create an oasis for just us. No, envy, no curses, no family drama.\b  \b0 Just peace. Let Fate hold her breath, and come start the life we've always dreamed of!\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\li1332\ri-4060 Sita looks dangerously at Rama.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 RAMA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\fi-208\li3304\ri-624 (sincerely)\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 If you are proposing I go off with you, I'm terribly sorry to say that will not be possible. As I said earlier, I am married to my wife, Sita. However, Lakshmana is still available.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\li1332\ri-4060 Sita's glare turns to giggles. She is reminded of why she loves Rama.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 LAKSHMANA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 Yes, I am, but to marry me you'd have to be willing to serve my brother. Oh, wait, let me be clear: not in bed on your knees, if that's what you're thinking.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\li1332\ri-4060 Now, both Sita and Rama are chuckling; Sita must have continued with Lakshmana's joke just between the two.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 SURPANAKHA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\fi-208\li3304\ri-624 (to Sita)\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 You think this is funny? Mocking me for the loss that I've suffered?\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\li1332\ri-4060 After all the self-control she was able to keep up until this point, Surpanakha lunges at Sita.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 SURPANAKHA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 You don't deserve him-! I do--\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\li1332\ri-4060 Lakshmana brandishes his knife and slices Surpanakha's nose. \par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 SURPANAKHA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\fi-208\li3304\ri-624 (gasping)\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 Vidyutjihva-!\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\li1332\ri-4060 Dark red blood bursts from her nose and down Surpanakha's beautiful face.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 SURPANAKHA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\fi-208\li3304\ri-624 (to Sita)\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 You...You'll regret this. You'll see. They're all the same.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\li1332\ri-4060 Surpanakha staggers off, her wedding robes stained with crimson blood.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 SITA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 Even though she wanted more than pleasure... I guess people don't change that much in the end. Did you see the way she looked at you?\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 RAMA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\fi-208\li3304\ri-624 (serious)\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 Yes, even though I'm not quite sure why. She knows I'm marri--\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\li1332\ri-4060 Sita kisses Rama. Lakshmana smiles while he cleans his dagger off.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\li1332\ri-4060 We suddenly are following YOUNG RAVANA as he inadvertently walks along Surpanakha's trail of blood. He is deep in various Vedic books while juggling instruments and a learnee's weapon. He wears clothes that would normally be for \i rishis\i0 , and occasionally, he tries a chant to Shiva. Men, humans and Gods alike, stare in disgust: a \i rakshasa\i0 --a demon!--trying to be Man.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\li1332\ri-4060 As he ages, his clothes transform into those which show the physique and prowess of the ultimate Self-made Emperor. The wisps of his new nine heads shadows the movement of his most handsome one--their presence so translucent and transient, mere mortals have to look twice to see them. But when you do see their ghostly movement and illusive beauty, it is Ravana's charming--and consumingly powerful--aurora you feel.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\li1332\ri-4060 We're now in the present, and the self-made Emperor enters his royal court room, still reading the Vedic book from when he was a child.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb480\ql\caps\li0\ri-4184 INTERIOR. RAVAN'A COURT ROOM\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\li1332\ri-4060 RAVANA enters to a weeping SURPANAKHA. He stops dead in his tracks and finally notices all the blood on the floor. The trail leads to a larger pool which rests underneath his sister.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 RAVANA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 It's been quite some time, Surpanakha. What is it? 10 years now?\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\li1332\ri-4060 Murmuring.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 RAVANA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 You've made quite the entrance. In front of all my ministers too. What happened? I've tried to tell my people to leave you alone--\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\li1332\ri-4060 Silence, as Surpanakha continues to wimper.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 RAVANA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\fi-208\li3304\ri-624 (to his ministers)\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 Leave us, please.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\li1332\ri-4060 Ravana walks over to Surpanakha's weeping form.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 RAVANA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 Why did you come to \ul me\ul0 ?\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 SURPANAKHA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 You're the only one who would understand. Even though I despise everything that is Lanka, I have realized how foolish I have been.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\li1332\ri-4060 Ravana helps Surpanakha to his throne. She sits, he kneels.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 RAVANA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 Tell me.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\li0\ri-4184 (The sentiments/dialogue below will eventually be translated to a duet.)\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 SURPANAKHA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184  You're right; we are not the same as them. Who am I to think I could escape that simple fact? But that does not mean they are perfect, no, those \ul \i kyshatriyas\i0 \ul0 \i  \i0 think they can take everything. They take everything and leave us nothing! The Gods are on their side and what about us? What about you and me? We are just pawns in their game of vanity. They who can tear the innocent limb by limb, heart and soul.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 RAVANA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 Who has taken away your innocence?\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 SURPANAKHA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 I should have known. Long ago with Vidyutjihva, I should have acted! I should of known that a rakshasa, no matter how faithful, could never be with a kyshatriya!\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 RAVANA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 But it wasn't him, was it? You met someone else.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 SURPANAKHA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 Yes, I am ashamed to say I couldn't help it.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 RAVANA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 It is not your fault, my sister. Passion is within our nature.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 SURPANAKHA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 It was a woman.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 RAVANA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 A woman?\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 SURPANAKHA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 A woman so...perfect. It is she who took away my innocence. Beautiful, witty, her husband's equal. She holds the key, Ravana, to a perfect life. A life of pure bliss: no violence or blemishes on her character. She is truly one with the Gods.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 SURPANAKHA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 Of course, she is married to the perfect\i  kyshatriya, \i0 Rama\i , \i0 so radiant I thought he was Vidyutjivha reincarnated. His brother is the one who did this to me when I lost control and lunged for her: \ul Sita\ul0 , who doesn't have to try.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 RAVANA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 Sita! The woman that rejected me to that Godly Man, Rama. How lucky he is to have Fate on his side.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\li1332\ri-4060 A breath.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 SURPANAKHA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 I have realized my place in this world, and it is one where you and I must level the playing field. Ravana, with all your knowledge in the \i vedas\i0  and weaponry, it is time to use those for the greater good! To show the vain and unworthy nature of the kshatriya! \par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 RAVANA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 Come, it is time for us to receive our perfect life! After years of rejection--of standing outside closed gates and unheard prayers--it is time for us to be rewarded for our resilience. If the Gods are not going to help us, we will take it for ourselves!\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 SURPANAKHA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 Yes, the girl! Sita is the key to our freedom and to destroy the kyshatriya name!\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 RAVANA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 Then it's settled! Let us go--\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 SURPANAKHA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 --to the Dandaka Forest! To the place I call home!\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\li0\ri-4184 (End of Duet)\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\qr\caps\li0\ri-4184 BLACKOUT\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb480\ql\caps\li0\ri-4184 EXTERIOR. DANDAKA HUT.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\li1332\ri-4060 RAMA and LAKSHMANA are playing a friendly game of dice. It's early evening, and the sunset glows brightly on the hut.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 LAKSHMANA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 You want to bet something even when we left Ayodhya with nothing in our pockets? What are you going to bet?\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 RAMA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 Not sure quite yet, but I'll think of something. Just to make things more interesting, else what's the point in playing?\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 LAKSHMANA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 Fair. I'll let you do the betting. I'll take whatever I can get.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 SITA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\fi-208\li3304\ri-624 (off-stage)\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 Boys, have you seen Mira? I was going to feed her, but she seemed to have disappeared.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 RAMA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\fi-208\li3304\ri-624 (preoccupied)\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 No.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 LAKSHMANA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 Rama, look!\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\li1332\ri-4060 Lakshmana points to a deer in the distance.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 LAKSHMANA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 Might that be Mira?\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\li1332\ri-4060 Both princes look towards the deer. The sun is blinding.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 RAMA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 Not sure. Maybe Sita would know?\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\fi-208\li3304\ri-624 (to Sita O.S.)\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 Sita! I think we found Mira!\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\li1332\ri-4060 Sita appears with a basket of fruit. Rama points towards the stoic deer. It is as if the deer is just as intrigued with them as they it.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 SITA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 Oh, my! It is not Mira, but it's beautiful! Rama, can't you see?\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 RAMA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 No--\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\li1332\ri-4060 Sita quickly ushers him to a spot where the sun doesn't blind the two.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 RAMA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 Wow. Lakshmana, this is quite the deer.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 SITA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 We should capture it! Mira would love a friend. We could name it Maya. Mira and Maya...what a duo. I'm excited already!\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 LAKSHMANA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\fi-208\li3304\ri-624 (on deaf ears)\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 Sita, I don't know. I've hunted many deer before, and this one... it irks me.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 SITA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 Rama, would you capture it for me? I'm sure it would appreciate your many stories... I mean, its looking right at you.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 RAMA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 I don't know. It's been a while since I have hunted. If Lakshmana is uneasy, that worries me.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 SITA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 Fine. Then I will be sleeping outside with Mira while we wait for Maya to appear again. Lakshmana can take my place next to you.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 LAKSHMANA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 Sita, that's ridiculous--\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 RAMA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 Lakshmana, sit down.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\li1332\ri-4060 Lakshmana has turned around to see Rama sitting in front of the dice.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 LAKSHMANA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 You can't be serious.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 RAMA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 Sit down.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\li1332\ri-4060 Reluctantly, Lakshmana sits, bow in hand.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 RAMA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 Only two dice. Doubles, we go after the deer.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 LAKSHMANA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 I thought we decided not to go after the deer at all.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 RAMA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\fi-208\li3304\ri-624 (quietly to Lakshmana)\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 I know you might not believe me, but Sita has not asked for much these entire thirteen years, and I think I owe her one. Plus, if it is something evil, I will vanquish it. If not, Sita gets a friend. Either way, now... \par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\fi-208\li3304\ri-624 (jiggling dice)\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 ...we don't have to make the decision.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 \par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 LAKSHMANA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 Fine. Roll.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\li1332\ri-4060 Rama rolls the dice. Lakshmana holds his breath.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\li1332\ri-4060 Both look at the dice.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 RAMA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 Snake eyes.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\fi-208\li3304\ri-624 (to Sita)\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 Sita, love, is the deer still there?\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 SITA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 Yes, and has made friends with Mira, just as I'd hoped!\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\li1332\ri-4060 Just as Rama got up and grabbed his bow for the first time since they arrived at the Dandaka Hut, the deer sprints off. Rama runs after it.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 LAKSHMANA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 Ok, since Rama's gone, you're under my care.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 SITA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 I am fully capable of taking care of myself.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 LAKSHMANA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 Well, I came to the forest for both of your safety. \par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\fi-208\li3304\ri-624 (sighs)\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 If it was Rama here, I would have said the same thing.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\li1332\ri-4060 An awkward silence.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 SITA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\fi-208\li3304\ri-624 (adjusting her garments)\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 Is that \ul really \ul0 why you came?\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 LAKSHMANA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\fi-208\li3304\ri-624 (quick to defend)\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 Yes.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 SITA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 It's...admirable.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 LAKSHMANA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 I'm glad you think so.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 SITA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 Rama needs a brother like you.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\li1332\ri-4060 Lakshmana smiles.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 SITA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 Honestly, I don't know how you dealt with him when you both were younger.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 LAKSHMANA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 We kept each other in line. I'd always make sure to support him whenever he made a difficult decision. He has this habit of being... overly truthful. He can never tell a lie. I personally don't understand it, but it has gotten him into some serious emotional trouble. So, yes, I've come to 'protect' him.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 SITA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 Tell me about it. It's as if he's the 'golden star' in his own drama. Title? 'Rama's Journey.'\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\li1332\ri-4060 Lakshmana bursts out laughing. The two continue to joke.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\li1332\ri-4060 Simultaneously, out of view from the Hut, we hear Rama's heavy breathing as he closes in on the illusive deer. It stops, yet right as he is about to draw back his bow, the deer stares into his soul.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\li1332\ri-4060 Rama forces himself to close his eyes, and only then does he release the arrow.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\li1332\ri-4060 The deer screeches. \par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\li1332\ri-4060 As Rama approaches the fallen deer, a woman can be heard gasping for air. Confused, Rama runs up to the unidentifiable woman.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 RAMA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\fi-208\li3304\ri-624 (to unknown woman)\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 What-! \par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\fi-208\li3304\ri-624 (towards Hut)\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 Sita! Lakshmana! Help me!\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\fi-208\li3304\ri-624 (attempting to save the woman)\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 No, no,  stay with me. My brother Lakshmana will come to help us. He always carries herbs with him, and Sita will bring water.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\li1332\ri-4060 As Rama is per-occupied with tending the wound, the woman suddenly brings Rama for a kiss but hesitates to close the gap. Rama realizes who it is.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 SURPANAKHA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 I'm so sorry, Rama. Save her. Save her, please!\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\li1332\ri-4060 Rama is stunned.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 SURPANAKHA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\fi-208\li3304\ri-624 (with deep sorrow)\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 No, no, you're already too late. It's too late!\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 SITA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\fi-208\li3304\ri-624 (back at the hut)\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 You aren't just here for Rama!\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\li1332\ri-4060 Sita and Lakshmana are in the middle of an argument. All we know is that it started when Rama called out Lakshmana's name.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 LAKSHMANA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\fi-208\li3304\ri-624 (in the doorway of the hut)\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 Sita, what are you talking about? I am here to protect you, now come inside the hut with me, please.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\li1332\ri-4060 \par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 SITA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 Rama needs you, why are you not going to help? So much for being there for your brother!\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 LAKSHMANA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 I know Rama better than anyone, and his shout was not one of pain. I need to make sure you're safe before I go anywhere.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 SITA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 Safe? Safe and sound within your arms? You're an \i anarya\i0 --a disgrace--if you think I'm going in there with you when Rama could be out there dying.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 LAKSHMANA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 Sita--\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 SITA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\fi-208\li3304\ri-624 (slight pause)\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 You've been waiting for this moment, haven't you? You and Kaikeyi conspiring--\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 LAKSHMANA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 How dare you accuse me of such a deviant act! I may not be as 'perfect' as Rama himself, but I have never lied to you. Ever. My duty is to protect you just as much it is to protect Rama, and not once have I ever had such sinful desires!\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 SITA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 Then prove it! Prove you're here to protect your brother, and not just to steal the crown and \ul me\ul0 !\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\li1332\ri-4060 Lakshmana grabs his weapons from the hut and darts off to find Rama. Sita sits quietly on the porch.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\li1332\ri-4060 His heart; that's all Rama hears as he attempts to make his way back to the Hut. The sun is no longer above the horizon and suddenly Rama struggles to find his way back.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\li1332\ri-4060 As if circling the Hut, the princes run to find each other. The hut now the only place lit by the growing moon.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\li1332\ri-4060 A gold ring falls from the sky in front of Rama's path. A lovebird, in the midst of mating, screams as his lover falls from the branch, a now bloody mess being struck by the ring. Rama freezes in horror as the bird mourns. Rama goes to pick up the bloody ring and immediately recognizes the engravings: It's Sita's.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 LAKSHMANA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 Rama! There you are!\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 RAMA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 We've made a grave error.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 LAKSHMANA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 What's wrong?\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\li1332\ri-4060 Lakshmana follows Rama's gaze towards the sky.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 LAKSHMANA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 Come, Sita is waiting for you.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 RAMA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 Why did you leave her?\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\li1332\ri-4060 Suddenly, Rama's wrathful gaze lands on Lakshmana.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 LAKSHMANA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 She--she said I was conspiring with mother Kaikeyi to have you killed! She accused me of lusting for her, and said to run after you to prove my dignity.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 RAMA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 That is an incorrect answer, Lakshmana.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\li1332\ri-4060 Rama shows Lakshmana the ring.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 LAKSHMANA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 Oh, God, what have we done?\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\li1332\ri-4060 Both men run back towards the Hut to find it destroyed. Suddenly, the world begins to shrink in fear of Rama's wrath.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 RAMA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\fi-208\li3304\ri-624 (scrambling to find Sita and her things)\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 You... imbecile!\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 LAKSHMANA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 Me?! You're the one who thought it was a good idea to run after the deer in the first place!\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 RAMA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 You had one job, Lakshmana! One. Job. How the hell could you screw me over like this? \par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\li1332\ri-4060 Lakshmana is at a loss for words.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 RAMA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 Don't just stand there, FIND HER! \par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\caps\li4050\ri-3242 LAKSHMANA\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\fi-208\li3304\ri-624 (Runs off to find Sita)\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb0\ql\li0\ri-4184 Sita! Maa Sita, I'm sorry! Please come back!\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\li1332\ri-4060 We follow Rama as he peels over all the damage. It's clear someone has taken her.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\li1332\ri-4060 (Rama's Solo. Similar in spirit to "NO GOOD DEED". )\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\li1332\ri-4060 Rama grabs his weapons; he swears he will destroy everything in his path until he finds Sita and proves to his Father above that he is still the princely kyshatriya Dasaratha has always seen in him. Ultimately, it's a song of deep pain. \par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\ql\li1332\ri-4060 His last saving grace has been stolen.\par
\pard\plain \f0\fs24\sb240\qc\caps\li0\ri-4184 \ul INTERMISSION. END OF ACT 3.\par
}
